<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h2>
			<section id="chapter-24-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>All that midsummer month Carol was sensitive to Kennicott. She recalled a hundred grotesqueries: her comic dismay at his having chewed tobacco, the evening when she had tried to read poetry to him; matters which had seemed to vanish with no trace or sequence. Always she repeated that he had been heroically patient in his desire to join the army. She made much of her consoling affection for him in little things. She liked the homeliness of his tinkering about the house; his strength and handiness as he tightened the hinges of a shutter; his boyishness when he ran to her to be comforted because he had found rust in the barrel of his pump-gun. But at the highest he was to her another Hugh, without the glamor of Hugh‚Äôs unknown future.</p>
				<p>There was, late in June, a day of heat-lightning.</p>
				<p>Because of the work imposed by the absence of the other doctors the Kennicotts had not moved to the lake cottage but remained in town, dusty and irritable. In the afternoon, when she went to Oleson¬Ý&amp; McGuire‚Äôs (formerly Dahl¬Ý&amp; Oleson‚Äôs), Carol was vexed by the assumption of the youthful clerk, recently come from the farm, that he had to be neighborly and rude. He was no more brusquely familiar than a dozen other clerks of the town, but her nerves were heat-scorched.</p>
				<p>When she asked for codfish, for supper, he grunted, ‚ÄúWhat d‚Äôyou want that darned old dry stuff for?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI like it!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúPunk! Guess the doc can afford something better than that. Try some of the new wienies we got in. Swell. The Haydocks use ‚Äôem.‚Äù</p>
				<p>She exploded. ‚ÄúMy dear young man, it is not your duty to instruct me in housekeeping, and it doesn‚Äôt particularly concern me what the Haydocks condescend to approve!‚Äù</p>
				<p>He was hurt. He hastily wrapped up the leprous fragment of fish; he gaped as she trailed out. She lamented, ‚ÄúI shouldn‚Äôt have spoken so. He didn‚Äôt mean anything. He doesn‚Äôt know when he is being rude.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Her repentance was not proof against Uncle Whittier when she stopped in at his grocery for salt and a package of safety matches. Uncle Whittier, in a shirt collarless and soaked with sweat in a brown streak down his back, was whining at a clerk, ‚ÄúCome on now, get a hustle on and lug that pound cake up to Mis‚Äô Cass‚Äôs. Some folks in this town think a storekeeper ain‚Äôt got nothing to do but chase out phone-orders.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Hello, Carrie. That dress you got on looks kind of low in the neck to me. May be decent and modest‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI suppose I‚Äôm old-fashioned‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut I never thought much of showing the whole town a woman‚Äôs bust! Hee, hee, hee!‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Afternoon, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝHicks. Sage? Just out of it. Lemme sell you some other spices. Heh?‚Äù Uncle Whittier was nasally indignant ‚Äú<em>Certainly!</em> Got <em>plenty</em> other spices jus‚Äô good as sage for any purp‚Äôse whatever! What‚Äôs the matter with‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, with allspice?‚Äù When <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝHicks had gone, he raged, ‚ÄúSome folks don‚Äôt know what they want!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúSweating sanctimonious bully‚ÅÝ‚Äîmy husband‚Äôs uncle!‚Äù thought Carol.</p>
				<p>She crept into Dave Dyer‚Äôs. Dave held up his arms with, ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt shoot! I surrender!‚Äù She smiled, but it occurred to her that for nearly five years Dave had kept up this game of pretending that she threatened his life.</p>
				<p>As she went dragging through the prickly-hot street she reflected that a citizen of Gopher Prairie does not have jests‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe has a jest. Every cold morning for five winters Lyman Cass had remarked, ‚ÄúFair to middlin‚Äô chilly‚ÅÝ‚Äîget worse before it gets better.‚Äù Fifty times had Ezra Stowbody informed the public that Carol had once asked, ‚ÄúShall I endorse this check on the back?‚Äù Fifty times had Sam Clark called to her, ‚ÄúWhere‚Äôd you steal that hat?‚Äù Fifty times had the mention of Barney Cahoon, the town drayman, like a nickel in a slot produced from Kennicott the apocryphal story of Barney‚Äôs directing a minister, ‚ÄúCome down to the depot and get your case of religious books‚ÅÝ‚Äîthey‚Äôre leaking!‚Äù</p>
				<p>She came home by the unvarying route. She knew every house-front, every street-crossing, every billboard, every tree, every dog. She knew every blackened banana-skin and empty cigarette-box in the gutters. She knew every greeting. When Jim Howland stopped and gaped at her there was no possibility that he was about to confide anything but his grudging, ‚ÄúWell, haryuh t‚Äôday?‚Äù</p>
				<p>All her future life, this same red-labeled bread-crate in front of the bakery, this same thimble-shaped crack in the sidewalk a quarter of a block beyond Stowbody‚Äôs granite hitching-post‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
				<p>She silently handed her purchases to the silent Oscarina. She sat on the porch, rocking, fanning, twitchy with Hugh‚Äôs whining.</p>
				<p>Kennicott came home, grumbled, ‚ÄúWhat the devil is the kid yapping about?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI guess you can stand it ten minutes if I can stand it all day!‚Äù</p>
				<p>He came to supper in his shirt sleeves, his vest partly open, revealing discolored suspenders.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhy don‚Äôt you put on your nice Palm Beach suit, and take off that hideous vest?‚Äù she complained.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúToo much trouble. Too hot to go upstairs.‚Äù</p>
				<p>She realized that for perhaps a year she had not definitely looked at her husband. She regarded his table-manners. He violently chased fragments of fish about his plate with a knife and licked the knife after gobbling them. She was slightly sick. She asserted, ‚ÄúI‚Äôm ridiculous. What do these things matter! Don‚Äôt be so simple!‚Äù But she knew that to her they did matter, these solecisms and mixed tenses of the table.</p>
				<p>She realized that they found little to say; that, incredibly, they were like the talked-out couples whom she had pitied at restaurants.</p>
				<p>Bresnahan would have spouted in a lively, exciting, unreliable manner.</p>
				<p>She realized that Kennicott‚Äôs clothes were seldom pressed. His coat was wrinkled; his trousers would flap at the knees when he arose. His shoes were unblacked, and they were of an elderly shapelessness. He refused to wear soft hats; cleaved to a hard derby, as a symbol of virility and prosperity; and sometimes he forgot to take it off in the house. She peeped at his cuffs. They were frayed in prickles of starched linen. She had turned them once; she clipped them every week; but when she had begged him to throw the shirt away, last Sunday morning at the crisis of the weekly bath, he had uneasily protested, ‚ÄúOh, it‚Äôll wear quite a while yet.‚Äù</p>
				<p>He was shaved (by himself or more socially by Del Snafflin) only three times a week. This morning had not been one of the three times.</p>
				<p>Yet he was vain of his new turndown collars and sleek ties; he often spoke of the ‚Äúsloppy dressing‚Äù of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝMcGanum; and he laughed at old men who wore detachable cuffs or Gladstone collars.</p>
				<p>Carol did not care much for the creamed codfish that evening.</p>
				<p>She noted that his nails were jagged and ill-shaped from his habit of cutting them with a pocketknife and despising a nail-file as effeminate and urban. That they were invariably clean, that his were the scoured fingers of the surgeon, made his stubborn untidiness the more jarring. They were wise hands, kind hands, but they were not the hands of love.</p>
				<p>She remembered him in the days of courtship. He had tried to please her, then, had touched her by sheepishly wearing a colored band on his straw hat. Was it possible that those days of fumbling for each other were gone so completely? He had read books, to impress her; had said (she recalled it ironically) that she was to point out his every fault; had insisted once, as they sat in the secret place beneath the walls of Fort Snelling‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
				<p>She shut the door on her thoughts. That was sacred ground. But it <em>was</em> a shame that‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
				<p>She nervously pushed away her cake and stewed apricots.</p>
				<p>After supper, when they had been driven in from the porch by mosquitos, when Kennicott had for the two-hundredth time in five years commented, ‚ÄúWe must have a new screen on the porch‚ÅÝ‚Äîlets all the bugs in,‚Äù they sat reading, and she noted, and detested herself for noting, and noted again his habitual awkwardness. He slumped down in one chair, his legs up on another, and he explored the recesses of his left ear with the end of his little finger‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe could hear the faint smack‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe kept it up‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe kept it up‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
				<p>He blurted, ‚ÄúOh. Forgot tell you. Some of the fellows coming in to play poker this evening. Suppose we could have some crackers and cheese and beer?‚Äù</p>
				<p>She nodded.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHe might have mentioned it before. Oh well, it‚Äôs his house.‚Äù</p>
				<p>The poker-party straggled in: Sam Clark, Jack Elder, Dave Dyer, Jim Howland. To her they mechanically said, ‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄôDevenin‚Äô,‚Äù but to Kennicott, in a heroic male manner, ‚ÄúWell, well, shall we start playing? Got a hunch I‚Äôm going to lick somebody real bad.‚Äù No one suggested that she join them. She told herself that it was her own fault, because she was not more friendly; but she remembered that they never asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSam Clark to play.</p>
				<p>Bresnahan would have asked her.</p>
				<p>She sat in the living-room, glancing across the hall at the men as they humped over the dining table.</p>
				<p>They were in shirt sleeves; smoking, chewing, spitting incessantly; lowering their voices for a moment so that she did not hear what they said and afterward giggling hoarsely; using over and over the canonical phrases: ‚ÄúThree to dole,‚Äù ‚ÄúI raise you a finif,‚Äù ‚ÄúCome on now, ante up; what do you think this is, a pink tea?‚Äù The cigar-smoke was acrid and pervasive. The firmness with which the men mouthed their cigars made the lower part of their faces expressionless, heavy, unappealing. They were like politicians cynically dividing appointments.</p>
				<p>How could they understand her world?</p>
				<p>Did that faint and delicate world exist? Was she a fool? She doubted her world, doubted herself, and was sick in the acid, smoke-stained air.</p>
				<p>She slipped back into brooding upon the habituality of the house.</p>
				<p>Kennicott was as fixed in routine as an isolated old man. At first he had amorously deceived himself into liking her experiments with food‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe one medium in which she could express imagination‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut now he wanted only his round of favorite dishes: steak, roast beef, boiled pig‚Äôs-feet, oatmeal, baked apples. Because at some more flexible period he had advanced from oranges to grapefruit he considered himself an epicure.</p>
				<p>During their first autumn she had smiled over his affection for his hunting-coat, but now that the leather had come unstitched in dribbles of pale yellow thread, and tatters of canvas, smeared with dirt of the fields and grease from gun-cleaning, hung in a border of rags, she hated the thing.</p>
				<p>Wasn‚Äôt her whole life like that hunting-coat?</p>
				<p>She knew every nick and brown spot on each piece of the set of china purchased by Kennicott‚Äôs mother in 1895‚ÅÝ‚Äîdiscreet china with a pattern of washed-out forget-me-nots, rimmed with blurred gold: the gravy-boat, in a saucer which did not match, the solemn and evangelical covered vegetable-dishes, the two platters.</p>
				<p>Twenty times had Kennicott sighed over the fact that Bea had broken the other platter‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe medium-sized one.</p>
				<p>The kitchen.</p>
				<p>Damp black iron sink, damp whitey-yellow drainboard with shreds of discolored wood which from long scrubbing were as soft as cotton thread, warped table, alarm clock, stove bravely blackened by Oscarina but an abomination in its loose doors and broken drafts and oven that never would keep an even heat.</p>
				<p>Carol had done her best by the kitchen: painted it white, put up curtains, replaced a six-year-old calendar by a color print. She had hoped for tiling, and a kerosene range for summer cooking, but Kennicott always postponed these expenses.</p>
				<p>She was better acquainted with the utensils in the kitchen than with Vida Sherwin or Guy Pollock. The can-opener, whose soft gray metal handle was twisted from some ancient effort to pry open a window, was more pertinent to her than all the cathedrals in Europe; and more significant than the future of Asia was the never-settled weekly question as to whether the small kitchen knife with the unpainted handle or the second-best buckhorn carving-knife was better for cutting up cold chicken for Sunday supper.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-24-2" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>She was ignored by the males till midnight. Her husband called, ‚ÄúSuppose we could have some eats, Carrie?‚Äù As she passed through the dining-room the men smiled on her, belly-smiles. None of them noticed her while she was serving the crackers and cheese and sardines and beer. They were determining the exact psychology of Dave Dyer in standing pat, two hours before.</p>
				<p>When they were gone she said to Kennicott, ‚ÄúYour friends have the manners of a barroom. They expect me to wait on them like a servant. They‚Äôre not so much interested in me as they would be in a waiter, because they don‚Äôt have to tip me. Unfortunately! Well, good night.‚Äù</p>
				<p>So rarely did she nag in this petty, hot-weather fashion that he was astonished rather than angry. ‚ÄúHey! Wait! What‚Äôs the idea? I must say I don‚Äôt get you. The boys‚ÅÝ‚ÄîBarroom? Why, Perce Bresnahan was saying there isn‚Äôt a finer bunch of royal good fellows anywhere than just the crowd that were here tonight!‚Äù</p>
				<p>They stood in the lower hall. He was too shocked to go on with his duties of locking the front door and winding his watch and the clock.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBresnahan! I‚Äôm sick of him!‚Äù She meant nothing in particular.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhy, Carrie, he‚Äôs one of the biggest men in the country! Boston just eats out of his hand!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI wonder if it does? How do we know but that in Boston, among well-bred people, he may be regarded as an absolute lout? The way he calls women ‚ÄòSister,‚Äô and the way‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNow look here! That‚Äôll do! Of course I know you don‚Äôt mean it‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou‚Äôre simply hot and tired, and trying to work off your peeve on me. But just the same, I won‚Äôt stand your jumping on Perce. You‚ÅÝ‚ÄîIt‚Äôs just like your attitude toward the war‚ÅÝ‚Äîso darn afraid that America will become militaristic‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBut you are the pure patriot!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúBy God, I am!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes, I heard you talking to Sam Clark tonight about ways of avoiding the income tax!‚Äù</p>
				<p>He had recovered enough to lock the door; he clumped upstairs ahead of her, growling, ‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt know what you‚Äôre talking about. I‚Äôm perfectly willing to pay my full tax‚ÅÝ‚Äîfact, I‚Äôm in favor of the income tax‚ÅÝ‚Äîeven though I do think it‚Äôs a penalty on frugality and enterprise‚ÅÝ‚Äîfact, it‚Äôs an unjust, darn-fool tax. But just the same, I‚Äôll pay it. Only, I‚Äôm not idiot enough to pay more than the government makes me pay, and Sam and I were just figuring out whether all automobile expenses oughn‚Äôt to be exemptions. I‚Äôll take a lot off you, Carrie, but I don‚Äôt propose for one second to stand your saying I‚Äôm not patriotic. You know mighty well and good that I‚Äôve tried to get away and join the army. And at the beginning of the whole fracas I said‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôve said right along‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat we ought to have entered the war the minute Germany invaded Belgium. You don‚Äôt get me at all. You can‚Äôt appreciate a man‚Äôs work. You‚Äôre abnormal. You‚Äôve fussed so much with these fool novels and books and all this highbrow junk‚ÅÝ‚ÄîYou like to argue!‚Äù</p>
				<p>It ended, a quarter of an hour later, in his calling her a ‚Äúneurotic‚Äù before he turned away and pretended to sleep.</p>
				<p>For the first time they had failed to make peace.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúThere are two races of people, only two, and they live side by side. His calls mine ‚Äòneurotic‚Äô; mine calls his ‚Äòstupid.‚Äô We‚Äôll never understand each other, never; and it‚Äôs madness for us to debate‚ÅÝ‚Äîto lie together in a hot bed in a creepy room‚ÅÝ‚Äîenemies, yoked.‚Äù</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-24-3" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>It clarified in her the longing for a place of her own.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhile it‚Äôs so hot, I think I‚Äôll sleep in the spare room,‚Äù she said next day.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNot a bad idea.‚Äù He was cheerful and kindly.</p>
				<p>The room was filled with a lumbering double bed and a cheap pine bureau. She stored the bed in the attic; replaced it by a cot which, with a denim cover, made a couch by day; put in a dressing-table, a rocker transformed by a cretonne cover; had Miles Bjornstam build bookshelves.</p>
				<p>Kennicott slowly understood that she meant to keep up her seclusion. In his queries, ‚ÄúChanging the whole room?‚Äù ‚ÄúPutting your books in there?‚Äù she caught his dismay. But it was so easy, once her door was closed, to shut out his worry. That hurt her‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe ease of forgetting him.</p>
				<p>Aunt Bessie Smail sleuthed out this anarchy. She yammered, ‚ÄúWhy, Carrie, you ain‚Äôt going to sleep all alone by yourself? I don‚Äôt believe in that. Married folks should have the same room, of course! Don‚Äôt go getting silly notions. No telling what a thing like that might lead to. Suppose I up and told your Uncle Whit that I wanted a room of my own!‚Äù</p>
				<p>Carol spoke of recipes for corn-pudding.</p>
				<p>But from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬Ý<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝWestlake she drew encouragement. She had made an afternoon call on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝWestlake. She was for the first time invited upstairs, and found the suave old woman sewing in a white and mahogany room with a small bed.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOh, do you have your own royal apartments, and the doctor his?‚Äù Carol hinted.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúIndeed I do! The doctor says it‚Äôs bad enough to have to stand my temper at meals. Do‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝWestlake looked at her sharply. ‚ÄúWhy, don‚Äôt you do the same thing?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve been thinking about it.‚Äù Carol laughed in an embarrassed way. ‚ÄúThen you wouldn‚Äôt regard me as a complete hussy if I wanted to be by myself now and then?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhy, child, every woman ought to get off by herself and turn over her thoughts‚ÅÝ‚Äîabout children, and God, and how bad her complexion is, and the way men don‚Äôt really understand her, and how much work she finds to do in the house, and how much patience it takes to endure some things in a man‚Äôs love.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes!‚Äù Carol said it in a gasp, her hands twisted together. She wanted to confess not only her hatred for the Aunt Bessies but her covert irritation toward those she best loved: her alienation from Kennicott, her disappointment in Guy Pollock, her uneasiness in the presence of Vida. She had enough self-control to confine herself to, ‚ÄúYes. Men! The dear blundering souls, we do have to get off and laugh at them.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúOf course we do. Not that you have to laugh at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝKennicott so much, but <em>my</em> man, heavens, now there‚Äôs a rare old bird! Reading storybooks when he ought to be tending to business! ‚ÄòMarcus Westlake,‚Äô I say to him, ‚Äòyou‚Äôre a romantic old fool.‚Äô And does he get angry? He does not! He chuckles and says, ‚ÄòYes, my beloved, folks do say that married people grow to resemble each other!‚Äô Drat him!‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝWestlake laughed comfortably.</p>
				<p>After such a disclosure what could Carol do but return the courtesy by remarking that as for Kennicott, he wasn‚Äôt romantic enough‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe darling. Before she left she had babbled to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝWestlake her dislike for Aunt Bessie, the fact that Kennicott‚Äôs income was now more than five thousand a year, her view of the reason why Vida had married Raymie (which included some thoroughly insincere praise of Raymie‚Äôs ‚Äúkind heart‚Äù), her opinion of the library-board, just what Kennicott had said about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCarthal‚Äôs diabetes, and what Kennicott thought of the several surgeons in the Cities.</p>
				<p>She went home soothed by confession, inspirited by finding a new friend.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-24-4" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>The tragicomedy of the ‚Äúdomestic situation.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Oscarina went back home to help on the farm, and Carol had a succession of maids, with gaps between. The lack of servants was becoming one of the most cramping problems of the prairie town. Increasingly the farmers‚Äô daughters rebelled against village dullness, and against the unchanged attitude of the Juanitas toward ‚Äúhired girls.‚Äù They went off to city kitchens, or to city shops and factories, that they might be free and even human after hours.</p>
				<p>The Jolly Seventeen were delighted at Carol‚Äôs desertion by the loyal Oscarina. They reminded her that she had said, ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt have any trouble with maids; see how Oscarina stays on.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Between incumbencies of Finn maids from the North Woods, Germans from the prairies, occasional Swedes and Norwegians and Icelanders, Carol did her own work‚ÅÝ‚Äîand endured Aunt Bessie‚Äôs skittering in to tell her how to dampen a broom for fluffy dust, how to sugar doughnuts, how to stuff a goose. Carol was deft, and won shy praise from Kennicott, but as her shoulder blades began to sting, she wondered how many millions of women had lied to themselves during the death-rimmed years through which they had pretended to enjoy the puerile methods persisting in housework.</p>
				<p>She doubted the convenience and, as a natural sequent, the sanctity of the monogamous and separate home which she had regarded as the basis of all decent life.</p>
				<p>She considered her doubts vicious. She refused to remember how many of the women of the Jolly Seventeen nagged their husbands and were nagged by them.</p>
				<p>She energetically did not whine to Kennicott. But her eyes ached; she was not the girl in breeches and a flannel shirt who had cooked over a campfire in the Colorado mountains five years ago. Her ambition was to get to bed at nine; her strongest emotion was resentment over rising at half-past six to care for Hugh. The back of her neck ached as she got out of bed. She was cynical about the joys of a simple laborious life. She understood why workmen and workmen‚Äôs wives are not grateful to their kind employers.</p>
				<p>At midmorning, when she was momentarily free from the ache in her neck and back, she was glad of the reality of work. The hours were living and nimble. But she had no desire to read the eloquent little newspaper essays in praise of labor which are daily written by the white-browed journalistic prophets. She felt independent and (though she hid it) a bit surly.</p>
				<p>In cleaning the house she pondered upon the maid‚Äôs-room. It was a slant-roofed, small-windowed hole above the kitchen, oppressive in summer, frigid in winter. She saw that while she had been considering herself an unusually good mistress, she had been permitting her friends Bea and Oscarina to live in a sty. She complained to Kennicott. ‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs the matter with it?‚Äù he growled, as they stood on the perilous stairs dodging up from the kitchen. She commented upon the sloping roof of unplastered boards stained in brown rings by the rain, the uneven floor, the cot and its tumbled discouraged-looking quilts, the broken rocker, the distorting mirror.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúMaybe it ain‚Äôt any Hotel Radisson parlor, but still, it‚Äôs so much better than anything these hired girls are accustomed to at home that they think it‚Äôs fine. Seems foolish to spend money when they wouldn‚Äôt appreciate it.‚Äù</p>
				<p>But that night he drawled, with the casualness of a man who wishes to be surprising and delightful, ‚ÄúCarrie, don‚Äôt know but what we might begin to think about building a new house, one of these days. How‚Äôd you like that?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúW-why‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm getting to the point now where I feel we can afford one‚ÅÝ‚Äîand a corker! I‚Äôll show this burg something like a real house! We‚Äôll put one over on Sam and Harry! Make folks sit up an‚Äô take notice!‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes,‚Äù she said.</p>
				<p>He did not go on.</p>
				<p>Daily he returned to the subject of the new house, but as to time and mode he was indefinite. At first she believed. She babbled of a low stone house with lattice windows and tulip-beds, of colonial brick, of a white frame cottage with green shutters and dormer windows. To her enthusiasms he answered, ‚ÄúWell, ye-es, might be worth thinking about. Remember where I put my pipe?‚Äù When she pressed him he fidgeted, ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know; seems to me those kind of houses you speak of have been overdone.‚Äù</p>
				<p>It proved that what he wanted was a house exactly like Sam Clark‚Äôs, which was exactly like every third new house in every town in the country: a square, yellow stolidity with immaculate clapboards, a broad screened porch, tidy grass-plots, and concrete walks; a house resembling the mind of a merchant who votes the party ticket straight and goes to church once a month and owns a good car.</p>
				<p>He admitted, ‚ÄúWell, yes, maybe it isn‚Äôt so darn artistic but‚ÅÝ‚ÄîMatter of fact, though, I don‚Äôt want a place just like Sam‚Äôs. Maybe I would cut off that fool tower he‚Äôs got, and I think probably it would look better painted a nice cream color. That yellow on Sam‚Äôs house is too kind of flashy. Then there‚Äôs another kind of house that‚Äôs mighty nice and substantial-looking, with shingles, in a nice brown stain, instead of clapboards‚ÅÝ‚Äîseen some in Minneapolis. You‚Äôre way off your base when you say I only like one kind of house!‚Äù</p>
				<p>Uncle Whittier and Aunt Bessie came in one evening when Carol was sleepily advocating a rose-garden cottage.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôve had a lot of experience with housekeeping, aunty, and don‚Äôt you think,‚Äù Kennicott appealed, ‚Äúthat it would be sensible to have a nice square house, and pay more attention to getting a crackajack furnace than to all this architecture and doodads?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Aunt Bessie worked her lips as though they were an elastic band. ‚ÄúWhy of course! I know how it is with young folks like you, Carrie; you want towers and bay-windows and pianos and heaven knows what all, but the thing to get is closets and a good furnace and a handy place to hang out the washing, and the rest don‚Äôt matter.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Uncle Whittier dribbled a little, put his face near to Carol‚Äôs, and sputtered, ‚ÄúCourse it don‚Äôt! What d‚Äôyou care what folks think about the outside of your house? It‚Äôs the inside you‚Äôre living in. None of my business, but I must say you young folks that‚Äôd rather have cakes than potatoes get me riled.‚Äù</p>
				<p>She reached her room before she became savage. Below, dreadfully near, she could hear the broom-swish of Aunt Bessie‚Äôs voice, and the mop-pounding of Uncle Whittier‚Äôs grumble. She had a reasonless dread that they would intrude on her, then a fear that she would yield to Gopher Prairie‚Äôs conception of duty toward an Aunt Bessie and go downstairs to be ‚Äúnice.‚Äù She felt the demand for standardized behavior coming in waves from all the citizens who sat in their sitting-rooms watching her with respectable eyes, waiting, demanding, unyielding. She snarled, ‚ÄúOh, all right, I‚Äôll go!‚Äù She powdered her nose, straightened her collar, and coldly marched downstairs. The three elders ignored her. They had advanced from the new house to agreeable general fussing. Aunt Bessie was saying, in a tone like the munching of dry toast:</p>
				<p>‚ÄúI do think <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝStowbody ought to have had the rain-pipe fixed at our store right away. I went to see him on Tuesday morning before ten, no, it was couple minutes after ten, but anyway, it was long before noon‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI know because I went right from the bank to the meat market to get some steak‚ÅÝ‚Äîmy! I think it‚Äôs outrageous, the prices Oleson¬Ý&amp; McGuire charge for their meat, and it isn‚Äôt as if they gave you a good cut either but just any old thing, and I had time to get it, and I stopped in at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBogart‚Äôs to ask about her rheumatism‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>Carol was watching Uncle Whittier. She knew from his taut expression that he was not listening to Aunt Bessie but herding his own thoughts, and that he would interrupt her bluntly. He did:</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWill, where c‚Äôn I get an extra pair of pants for this coat and vest? D‚Äô want to pay too much.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWell, guess Nat Hicks could make you up a pair. But if I were you, I‚Äôd drop into Ike Rifkin‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚Äîhis prices are lower than the Bon Ton‚Äôs.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúHumph. Got the new stove in your office yet?‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúNo, been looking at some at Sam Clark‚Äôs but‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWell, y‚Äô ought get ‚Äôt in. Don‚Äôt do to put off getting a stove all summer, and then have it come cold on you in the fall.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Carol smiled upon them ingratiatingly. ‚ÄúDo you dears mind if I slip up to bed? I‚Äôm rather tired‚ÅÝ‚Äîcleaned the upstairs today.‚Äù</p>
				<p>She retreated. She was certain that they were discussing her, and foully forgiving her. She lay awake till she heard the distant creak of a bed which indicated that Kennicott had retired. Then she felt safe.</p>
				<p>It was Kennicott who brought up the matter of the Smails at breakfast. With no visible connection he said, ‚ÄúUncle Whit is kind of clumsy, but just the same, he‚Äôs a pretty wise old coot. He‚Äôs certainly making good with the store.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Carol smiled, and Kennicott was pleased that she had come to her senses. ‚ÄúAs Whit says, after all the first thing is to have the inside of a house right, and darn the people on the outside looking in!‚Äù</p>
				<p>It seemed settled that the house was to be a sound example of the Sam Clark school.</p>
				<p>Kennicott made much of erecting it entirely for her and the baby. He spoke of closets for her frocks, and ‚Äúa comfy sewing-room.‚Äù But when he drew on a leaf from an old account-book (he was a paper-saver and a string-picker) the plans for the garage, he gave much more attention to a cement floor and a workbench and a gasoline-tank than he had to sewing-rooms.</p>
				<p>She sat back and was afraid.</p>
				<p>In the present rookery there were odd things‚ÅÝ‚Äîa step up from the hall to the dining-room, a picturesqueness in the shed and bedraggled lilac bush. But the new place would be smooth, standardized, fixed. It was probable, now that Kennicott was past forty, and settled, that this would be the last venture he would ever make in building. So long as she stayed in this ark, she would always have a possibility of change, but once she was in the new house, there she would sit for all the rest of her life‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere she would die. Desperately she wanted to put it off, against the chance of miracles. While Kennicott was chattering about a patent swing-door for the garage she saw the swing-doors of a prison.</p>
				<p>She never voluntarily returned to the project. Aggrieved, Kennicott stopped drawing plans, and in ten days the new house was forgotten.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chapter-24-5" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>Every year since their marriage Carol had longed for a trip through the East. Every year Kennicott had talked of attending the American Medical Association convention, ‚Äúand then afterwards we could do the East up brown. I know New York clean through‚ÅÝ‚Äîspent pretty near a week there‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut I would like to see New England and all these historic places and have some seafood.‚Äù He talked of it from February to May, and in May he invariably decided that coming confinement-cases or land-deals would prevent his ‚Äúgetting away from home-base for very long <em>this</em> year‚ÅÝ‚Äîand no sense going till we can do it right.‚Äù</p>
				<p>The weariness of dish-washing had increased her desire to go. She pictured herself looking at Emerson‚Äôs manse, bathing in a surf of jade and ivory, wearing a <i xml:lang="fr">trottoir</i> and a summer fur, meeting an aristocratic Stranger. In the spring Kennicott had pathetically volunteered, ‚ÄúS‚Äôpose you‚Äôd like to get in a good long tour this summer, but with Gould and Mac away and so many patients depending on me, don‚Äôt see how I can make it. By golly, I feel like a tightwad though, not taking you.‚Äù Through all this restless July after she had tasted Bresnahan‚Äôs disturbing flavor of travel and gaiety, she wanted to go, but she said nothing. They spoke of and postponed a trip to the Twin Cities. When she suggested, as though it were a tremendous joke, ‚ÄúI think baby and I might up and leave you, and run off to Cape Cod by ourselves!‚Äù his only reaction was ‚ÄúGolly, don‚Äôt know but what you may almost have to do that, if we don‚Äôt get in a trip next year.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Toward the end of July he proposed, ‚ÄúSay, the Beavers are holding a convention in Joralemon, street fair and everything. We might go down tomorrow. And I‚Äôd like to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝCalibree about some business. Put in the whole day. Might help some to make up for our trip. Fine fellow, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝCalibree.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Joralemon was a prairie town of the size of Gopher Prairie.</p>
				<p>Their motor was out of order, and there was no passenger-train at an early hour. They went down by freight-train, after the weighty and conversational business of leaving Hugh with Aunt Bessie. Carol was exultant over this irregular jaunting. It was the first unusual thing, except the glance of Bresnahan, that had happened since the weaning of Hugh. They rode in the caboose, the small red cupola-topped car jerked along at the end of the train. It was a roving shanty, the cabin of a land schooner, with black oilcloth seats along the side, and for desk, a pine board to be let down on hinges. Kennicott played seven-up with the conductor and two brakemen. Carol liked the blue silk kerchiefs about the brakemen‚Äôs throats; she liked their welcome to her, and their air of friendly independence. Since there were no sweating passengers crammed in beside her, she reveled in the train‚Äôs slowness. She was part of these lakes and tawny wheat-fields. She liked the smell of hot earth and clean grease; and the leisurely <i>chug‚Äëa‚Äëchug, chug‚Äëa‚Äëchug</i> of the trucks was a song of contentment in the sun.</p>
				<p>She pretended that she was going to the Rockies. When they reached Joralemon she was radiant with holiday-making.</p>
				<p>Her eagerness began to lessen the moment they stopped at a red frame station exactly like the one they had just left at Gopher Prairie, and Kennicott yawned, ‚ÄúRight on time. Just in time for dinner at the Calibrees‚Äô. I phoned the doctor from <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">G.P.</abbr> that we‚Äôd be here. ‚ÄòWe‚Äôll catch the freight that gets in before twelve,‚Äô I told him. He said he‚Äôd meet us at the depot and take us right up to the house for dinner. Calibree is a good man, and you‚Äôll find his wife is a mighty brainy little woman, bright as a dollar. By golly, there he is.‚Äù</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝCalibree was a squat, clean-shaven, conscientious-looking man of forty. He was curiously like his own brown-painted motor car, with eyeglasses for windshield. ‚ÄúWant you to meet my wife, doctor‚ÅÝ‚ÄîCarrie, make you ‚Äôquainted with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝCalibree,‚Äù said Kennicott. Calibree bowed quietly and shook her hand, but before he had finished shaking it he was concentrating upon Kennicott with, ‚ÄúNice to see you, doctor. Say, don‚Äôt let me forget to ask you about what you did in that exopthalmic goiter case‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat Bohemian woman at Wahkeenyan.‚Äù</p>
				<p>The two men, on the front seat of the car, chanted goiters and ignored her. She did not know it. She was trying to feed her illusion of adventure by staring at unfamiliar houses‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ drab cottages, artificial stone bungalows, square painty stolidities with immaculate clapboards and broad screened porches and tidy grass-plots.</p>
				<p>Calibree handed her over to his wife, a thick woman who called her ‚Äúdearie,‚Äù and asked if she was hot and, visibly searching for conversation, produced, ‚ÄúLet‚Äôs see, you and the doctor have a Little One, haven‚Äôt you?‚Äù At dinner <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCalibree served the corned beef and cabbage and looked steamy, looked like the steamy leaves of cabbage. The men were oblivious of their wives as they gave the social passwords of Main Street, the orthodox opinions on weather, crops, and motor cars, then flung away restraint and gyrated in the debauch of shop-talk. Stroking his chin, drawling in the ecstasy of being erudite, Kennicott inquired, ‚ÄúSay, doctor, what success have you had with thyroid for treatment of pains in the legs before childbirth?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Carol did not resent their assumption that she was too ignorant to be admitted to masculine mysteries. She was used to it. But the cabbage and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCalibree‚Äôs monotonous ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know what we‚Äôre coming to with all this difficulty getting hired girls‚Äù were gumming her eyes with drowsiness. She sought to clear them by appealing to Calibree, in a manner of exaggerated liveliness, ‚ÄúDoctor, have the medical societies in Minnesota ever advocated legislation for help to nursing mothers?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Calibree slowly revolved toward her. ‚ÄúUh‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôve never‚ÅÝ‚Äîuh‚ÅÝ‚Äînever looked into it. I don‚Äôt believe much in getting mixed up in politics.‚Äù He turned squarely from her and, peering earnestly at Kennicott, resumed, ‚ÄúDoctor, what‚Äôs been your experience with unilateral pyelonephritis? Buckburn of Baltimore advocates decapsulation and nephrotomy, but seems to me‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
				<p>Not till after two did they rise. In the lee of the stonily mature trio Carol proceeded to the street fair which added mundane gaiety to the annual rites of the United and Fraternal Order of Beavers. Beavers, human Beavers, were everywhere: thirty-second degree Beavers in gray sack suits and decent derbies, more flippant Beavers in crash summer coats and straw hats, rustic Beavers in shirt sleeves and frayed suspenders; but whatever his caste-symbols, every Beaver was distinguished by an enormous shrimp-colored ribbon lettered in silver, ‚ÄúSir Knight and Brother, <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">U.F.O.B.</abbr>, Annual State Convention.‚Äù On the motherly shirtwaist of each of their wives was a badge, ‚ÄúSir Knight‚Äôs Lady.‚Äù The Duluth delegation had brought their famous Beaver amateur band, in Zouave costumes of green velvet jacket, blue trousers, and scarlet fez. The strange thing was that beneath their scarlet pride the Zouaves‚Äô faces remained those of American businessmen, pink, smooth, eye-glassed; and as they stood playing in a circle, at the corner of Main Street and Second, as they tootled on fifes or with swelling cheeks blew into cornets, their eyes remained as owlish as though they were sitting at desks under the sign ‚ÄúThis Is My Busy Day.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Carol had supposed that the Beavers were average citizens organized for the purposes of getting cheap life-insurance and playing poker at the lodge-rooms every second Wednesday, but she saw a large poster which proclaimed:</p>
				<blockquote>
					<header role="presentation">
						<p>Beavers</p>
						<p>
							<abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">U.F.O.B.</abbr>
						</p>
					</header>
					<p>The greatest influence for good citizenship in the country. The jolliest aggregation of red-blooded, openhanded, hustle-em-up good fellows in the world.</p>
					<p>Joralemon welcomes you to her hospitable city.</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>Kennicott read the poster and to Calibree admired, ‚ÄúStrong lodge, the Beavers. Never joined. Don‚Äôt know but what I will.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Calibree adumbrated, ‚ÄúThey‚Äôre a good bunch. Good strong lodge. See that fellow there that‚Äôs playing the snare drum? He‚Äôs the smartest wholesale grocer in Duluth, they say. Guess it would be worth joining. Oh say, are you doing much insurance examining?‚Äù</p>
				<p>They went on to the street fair.</p>
				<p>Lining one block of Main Street were the ‚Äúattractions‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîtwo hotdog stands, a lemonade and popcorn stand, a merry-go-round, and booths in which balls might be thrown at rag dolls, if one wished to throw balls at rag dolls. The dignified delegates were shy of the booths, but country boys with brick-red necks and pale-blue ties and bright-yellow shoes, who had brought sweethearts into town in somewhat dusty and listed Fords, were wolfing sandwiches, drinking strawberry pop out of bottles, and riding the revolving crimson and gold horses. They shrieked and giggled; peanut-roasters whistled; the merry-go-round pounded out monotonous music; the barkers bawled, ‚ÄúHere‚Äôs your chance‚ÅÝ‚Äîhere‚Äôs your chance‚ÅÝ‚Äîcome on here, boy‚ÅÝ‚Äîcome on here‚ÅÝ‚Äîgive that girl a good time‚ÅÝ‚Äîgive her a swell time‚ÅÝ‚Äîhere‚Äôs your chance to win a genuwine gold watch for five cents, half a dime, the twentieth part of a dollah!‚Äù The prairie sun jabbed the unshaded street with shafts that were like poisonous thorns the tinny cornices above the brick stores were glaring; the dull breeze scattered dust on sweaty Beavers who crawled along in tight scorching new shoes, up two blocks and back, up two blocks and back, wondering what to do next, working at having a good time.</p>
				<p>Carol‚Äôs head ached as she trailed behind the unsmiling Calibrees along the block of booths. She chirruped at Kennicott, ‚ÄúLet‚Äôs be wild! Let‚Äôs ride on the merry-go-round and grab a gold ring!‚Äù</p>
				<p>Kennicott considered it, and mumbled to Calibree, ‚ÄúThink you folks would like to stop and try a ride on the merry-go-round?‚Äù</p>
				<p>Calibree considered it, and mumbled to his wife, ‚ÄúThink you‚Äôd like to stop and try a ride on the merry-go-round?‚Äù</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCalibree smiled in a washed-out manner, and sighed, ‚ÄúOh no, I don‚Äôt believe I care to much, but you folks go ahead and try it.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Calibree stated to Kennicott, ‚ÄúNo, I don‚Äôt believe we care to a whole lot, but you folks go ahead and try it.‚Äù</p>
				<p>Kennicott summarized the whole case against wildness: ‚ÄúLet‚Äôs try it some other time, Carrie.‚Äù</p>
				<p>She gave it up. She looked at the town. She saw that in adventuring from Main Street, Gopher Prairie, to Main Street, Joralemon, she had not stirred. There were the same two-story brick groceries with lodge-signs above the awnings; the same one-story wooden millinery shop; the same firebrick garages; the same prairie at the open end of the wide street; the same people wondering whether the levity of eating a hotdog sandwich would break their taboos.</p>
				<p>They reached Gopher Prairie at nine in the evening.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYou look kind of hot,‚Äù said Kennicott.</p>
				<p>‚ÄúYes.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúJoralemon is an enterprising town, don‚Äôt you think so?‚Äù</p>
				<p>She broke. ‚ÄúNo! I think it‚Äôs an ash-heap.‚Äù</p>
				<p>‚ÄúWhy, Carrie!‚Äù</p>
				<p>He worried over it for a week. While he ground his plate with his knife as he energetically pursued fragments of bacon, he peeped at her.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
